source/content/disaster-recovery.md, before:

---
title: Site Disaster Recovery
description: Learn how mission-critical websites can stay online in the event of a total zone failure
tags: [services,disaster recovery]
categories: [platform]
---

## Overview
Pantheon's [Site Disaster Recovery](https://pantheon.io/features/disaster-recovery) (**DR**) service is designed for mission-critical websites that need to ensure business continuity during the unlikely event of a zone failure. While Pantheon can’t prevent disasters from happening, we have architected a multi-zone, high availability (**HA**) solution with intelligent failover at the Global CDN layer that can help minimize the effects of an incident.

Disaster Recovery is more than just a combination of technology. It includes 24/7 support and a guaranteed 99.99% uptime Service Level Agreement (**SLA**) to keep sites from going down, and to actively respond to any incident that might occur.

### RPO and RTO - Minutes to Recovery

With Disaster Recovery in place, Pantheon monitors datacenter health and proactively manages failover to avoid or minimize data loss.

Recovery Point Objective (**RPO**) is a baseline of reasonably acceptable data loss in the event of a major outage. In short, think “lost transactions.” The RPO is largely determined by whether there is replication lag or not, which can result from heavy transactional load on the site’s database. We rarely see replication lag, and when we do, we have automated tools to rebuild the site’s replica and alert our team if a site is consistently experiencing replication lag. This way, we can proactively notify you so you can work toward a solution. For sites with DR enabled, Pantheon’s RPO is 5 minutes.

Recovery Time Objective (**RTO**) is the target amount of time within which a business process must be restored after a disaster in order to avoid unacceptable consequences from a break in business continuity. In short, think “time down.” For sites with DR enabled, Pantheon’s RTO is 15 minutes.

## Access
Site Disaster Recovery is available for purchase as an add-on to all Elite site plans except Elite Starter. For more information, please [contact Sales](https://pantheon.io/contact-us).

![Pantheon Site Disaster Recovery Architecture Diagram](../images/site-dr-diagram.png)

## Features

### High Availability
The Pantheon Platform has redundancy built-in throughout our containerized infrastructure. In addition, sites with Disaster Recovery get a replicated database in an alternative availability zone for even higher availability.

### Intelligent Failover
Pantheon is constantly running infrastructure checks to ensure all systems are running smoothly. If we ever detect elevated error rates in any of our zones, we failover to a backup zone.

### Persistent Zone Coverage
In the event of a zone failure we reroute your site to the backup zone and provision a new replica in a healthy zone.

### Real-time Failover Support
Pantheon’s disaster response team will proactively notify you of a zone failure event and its impact to your site. Your dedicated team will keep clear and transparent lines of communication on any action taken to keep your site online, and is available 24/7 for all of your questions.

## Redis & Disaster Recovery Best Practices
Redis cache is not preserved after a site failover. This means you must ensure that the site can handle having its cache dropped under regular visitor traffic in order for the site to operate as expected in a failover scenario.

To test in a Test Environment, click the **Clear Caches** button in the upper right hand corner of the Site Dashboard.
You can also [connect to your Redis instance](/redis/#use-the-redis-command-line-client) and run the `flushall` command to clear Redis cache via the Redis CLI.

If you rely on the Redis cache for locks (mutexes) or storing other long-term data, you must move them out of Redis and into the database to avoid any issues when the Redis cache is dropped during failover.

## Solr and Disaster Recovery

### Considerations for Sites Requiring Highly Available Solr Service

While Solr can be enabled on a site with Disaster Recovery, Pantheon's Solr service is not highly available, nor does it include failover for Solr. The RTO and RPO do not apply to Pantheon's Solr Service.

If your site requires Solr, do not use Pantheon's Solr service. If you require a highly available Solr service, please consider an [alternative Solr service](/solr#alternatives-to-pantheons-solr-service).

### Using Pantheon Solr Service on Sites With Disaster Recovery

Pantheon Solr requires additional considerations when used on sites with Disaster Recovery. In its default state, if a site with Pantheon Solr and Disaster Recovery fails over to the backup, Solr will not automatically rebuild the search index. In that case, 

1. Pantheon will need to manually re-provision your Solr instance and 
1. you will need to manually re-index Solr after failover.

You may also consider one of the two following options:

1. Use an [Alternative Solr Service](/solr#alternatives-to-pantheons-solr-service)
1. **For Drupal:** Configure search to write to both Pantheon Solr and another index (either Drupal core search or an external Solr service) as a fallback. In the event the site must be recovered after a disaster, search forms can then be manually re-pointed at the fallback index until your Pantheon Solr instance has been rebuilt and re-indexed.

If none of these options work for your site's needs, see our documentation on how to safely remove Solr for [Drupal 8](/solr-drupal-8/#safely-remove-solr), [Drupal 7](/solr-drupal-7/#safely-remove-solr), and [WordPress](/wordpress-solr/#safely-remove-solr).

## See also
- [Disaster Recovery Webinar - 11/8/2018 ](https://pantheon.io/resources/disaster-recovery-webinar)

Commit message:

Update DR docs to cover Solr issue mitigation
Edited 'Solr and Disaster Recovery' section to include:
* Better description of what happens and how to fix it

Still needs content to describe how to reindex for D7 and WP.

source/content/disaster-recovery.md, after:

---
title: Site Disaster Recovery
description: Learn how mission-critical websites can stay online in the event of a total zone failure
tags: [services,disaster recovery]
categories: [platform]
---

## Overview
Pantheon's [Site Disaster Recovery](https://pantheon.io/features/disaster-recovery) (**DR**) service is designed for mission-critical websites that need to ensure business continuity during the unlikely event of a zone failure. While Pantheon can’t prevent disasters from happening, we have architected a multi-zone, high availability (**HA**) solution with intelligent failover at the Global CDN layer that can help minimize the effects of an incident.

Disaster Recovery is more than just a combination of technology. It includes 24/7 support and a guaranteed 99.99% uptime Service Level Agreement (**SLA**) to keep sites from going down, and to actively respond to any incident that might occur.

### RPO and RTO - Minutes to Recovery

With Disaster Recovery in place, Pantheon monitors datacenter health and proactively manages failover to avoid or minimize data loss.

Recovery Point Objective (**RPO**) is a baseline of reasonably acceptable data loss in the event of a major outage. In short, think “lost transactions.” The RPO is largely determined by whether there is replication lag or not, which can result from heavy transactional load on the site’s database. We rarely see replication lag, and when we do, we have automated tools to rebuild the site’s replica and alert our team if a site is consistently experiencing replication lag. This way, we can proactively notify you so you can work toward a solution. For sites with DR enabled, Pantheon’s RPO is 5 minutes.

Recovery Time Objective (**RTO**) is the target amount of time within which a business process must be restored after a disaster in order to avoid unacceptable consequences from a break in business continuity. In short, think “time down.” For sites with DR enabled, Pantheon’s RTO is 15 minutes.

## Access
Site Disaster Recovery is available for purchase as an add-on to all Elite site plans except Elite Starter. For more information, please [contact Sales](https://pantheon.io/contact-us).

![Pantheon Site Disaster Recovery Architecture Diagram](../images/site-dr-diagram.png)

## Features

### High Availability
The Pantheon Platform has redundancy built-in throughout our containerized infrastructure. In addition, sites with Disaster Recovery get a replicated database in an alternative availability zone for even higher availability.

### Intelligent Failover
Pantheon is constantly running infrastructure checks to ensure all systems are running smoothly. If we ever detect elevated error rates in any of our zones, we failover to a backup zone.

### Persistent Zone Coverage
In the event of a zone failure we reroute your site to the backup zone and provision a new replica in a healthy zone.

### Real-time Failover Support
Pantheon’s disaster response team will proactively notify you of a zone failure event and its impact to your site. Your dedicated team will keep clear and transparent lines of communication on any action taken to keep your site online, and is available 24/7 for all of your questions.

## Redis & Disaster Recovery Best Practices
Redis cache is not preserved after a site failover. This means you must ensure that the site can handle having its cache dropped under regular visitor traffic in order for the site to operate as expected in a failover scenario.

To test in a Test Environment, click the **Clear Caches** button in the upper right hand corner of the Site Dashboard.
You can also [connect to your Redis instance](/redis/#use-the-redis-command-line-client) and run the `flushall` command to clear Redis cache via the Redis CLI.

If you rely on the Redis cache for locks (mutexes) or storing other long-term data, you must move them out of Redis and into the database to avoid any issues when the Redis cache is dropped during failover.

## Solr and Disaster Recovery

### Considerations for Sites Requiring Highly Available Solr Service

While Solr can be enabled on a site with Disaster Recovery, Pantheon's Solr service is not highly available, nor does it include failover for Solr. The RTO and RPO do not apply to Pantheon's Solr Service.

If your site requires Solr, do not use Pantheon's Solr service. If you require a highly available Solr service, please consider an [alternative Solr service](/solr#alternatives-to-pantheons-solr-service).

### Using Pantheon Solr Service on Sites With Disaster Recovery

Pantheon Solr requires additional considerations when used on sites with Disaster Recovery. In its default state, if a site with Pantheon Solr and Disaster Recovery fails over to the backup, Solr will not automatically rebuild the search index. In that case, 

1. Pantheon will need to manually re-provision your Solr instance. In the case of failover, the support engineers will be notified via a notification ticket and they will re-provision Solr for you. 
1. This notification will also be sent to all users with access to the live environment, and once Solr has been re-provisioned you will be notified via this support ticket.
1. You will need to manually re-index Solr after failover. 

The reindexing process is application-side, and depending on your site the process may be different.

#### Drupal 8, using the search_api_pantheon module
1. As a site administrator, navigate to https://live-some-site.pantheonsite.io/admin/config/search/search-api/server/pantheon
1. Click “Delete all indexed data on this server” to queue all content for re-indexing.
1. Run Drupal Cron manually until all items have been indexed. You can determine that all items are indexed when search_api stops logging to watchdog on the cron runs.

#### Drupal 7 (needs to be written)

#### Wordpress (needs to be written)

### Mitigating Solr/DR issues

You may also consider one of the two following options:

1. Use an [Alternative Solr Service](/solr#alternatives-to-pantheons-solr-service)
1. **For Drupal:** Configure search to write to both Pantheon Solr and another index (either Drupal core search or an external Solr service) as a fallback. In the event the site must be recovered after a disaster, search forms can then be manually re-pointed at the fallback index until your Pantheon Solr instance has been rebuilt and re-indexed.

If none of these options work for your site's needs, see our documentation on how to safely remove Solr for [Drupal 8](/solr-drupal-8/#safely-remove-solr), [Drupal 7](/solr-drupal-7/#safely-remove-solr), and [WordPress](/wordpress-solr/#safely-remove-solr).

## See also
- [Disaster Recovery Webinar - 11/8/2018 ](https://pantheon.io/resources/disaster-recovery-webinar)
